hi this is pressure Locker the October
1980 SAT exam contained the following
math question which row contains both
the square of an integer and the cube of
a different integer you are to select
the correct answer from the following
five choices the SAT is supposed to have
exactly one correct answer for each
problem however on this question the
test makers made a mistake can you
figure it out give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching the
video for the solution okay so the test
makers intended for there to be exactly
one correct answer which was answer
choice B this contains the number nine
which is the square of the integer three
and it contains the number 8 which is
the cube of a different integer to
answer choice C was supposed to be a
distraction while it does contain the
number 4 which is the square of the
number 2 and the number 8 which is the
cube of the number 2 the problem with
this answer choice what they thought the
problem was is that the square and the
cube are of the same integer 2 so this
was supposed to be a distraction and
about 1/4 of the students put this to be
the correct answer however it was the
test makers who made the mistake when
they said you want to have the square of
an integer and the cube of a different
integer they forgot that integers can be
both positive or negative so the number
4 is actually the square of a different
integer if you consider negative 2
squared and the number 8 which is the
integer 2 cubed so answer choice C does
contain the square of an integer and the
cube of a different integer so both
answers choice is B and C are correct
answer choices the test makers admitted
their mistake and actually awarded the
1/4 the students who put answer choice C
they actually corrected their scores and
gave them an extra 10 points did you
figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math and game theory you can catch me on
my blog mind your decisions which you
can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media at
pressure Locker and if you liked this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description